I know that in Braveheart William
Wallace doesn't achieve the goal he's
he's executed other people achieve the
goal I know that in the pin dragon cycle
in turn both tal Essen and Merlin and
Arthur fail to achieve the goal they get
they draw us one step closer to that
goal and they go through huge losses so
perhaps in a narrative sense I I was
drawn to these stories about how it's
not our job to save the world it's only
our job to do our
[Music]
part
hello everyone watching and listening
today I'm speaking with screenwriter
director and co-founder of the daily
wire Jeremy
boring we discussed yesterday's Landmark
launch of the bent key kids platform
what Children's Entertainment really
cultural drama should be trying to keep
politics out of it the strange inversion
of Hollywood from the transcendental and
literary to the political and the Folly
of propagandistic populism put forward
at the expense of Traditional Values
culture enjoyment and your
children well hello Jeremy it's good to
see you nice to see you we haven't
talked for a while you've been I'm in
Lisbon at the moment we arrived
literally like an hour and a half ago if
that and and so yeah i' I zipped over
here to the studio so that we could talk
you had a big announcement yesterday so
let's start off our conversation well
first of all why do you tell everybody
who's watching and listening what our
relationship is and exactly who you are
and in relationship to me and so forth
and then we'll talk about last night's
announcement yeah so I'm the co-founder
and on a good day co-ceo of the daily
wire I'm actually on a leave of absence
from that co-ceo role at the moment I'm
in Eastern Europe and Croatia today
producing our first major scripted
series for daily wire plus called the
pin dragon cycle but our relationship is
is because of my involvement with daily
wire where your podcast is hosted and we
make a lot of projects together uh which
has been a real treat for me you one of
the things that Ben and I Shapiro when
we first started working together in
advance of founding the daily wire we
really wanted to be involved in things
that we thought had had weight Beyond
just the politic of the moment and that
may sound obvious but we're both we were
both in a very political sphere and so
it wasn't readily apparent how to get
from point A to point B how to go from
talking about politics every day to
talking about deeper issues and
ultimately to not only criticizing
culture but to to making culture to
doing something proactive in the culture
but that's that's what our journey has
been and and in some ways our
announcement yesterday is is another
major step but truly beginning to work
with you a little a little over a year
ago was a major step in that regard as
well just to move us out of only being
able to talk about today and to talk
about the things that that underg today
the the things that underg the news so
that's our relationship and I think tees
up well the announcement from yesterday
as well which is that we launched our
new company called bent key which is our
Children's Entertainment uh entity we we
announced a little over a year ago that
we were going to do so in the wake of
those tapes that Chris rufo leaked from
Disney Executives were talking about
their not so secret gay agenda and
inserting queerness into their content
they were talking about the the
reimagined Disney campaign where they
were going to have more than 50% of all
of the talent of all of the onscreen
characters in Disney content be from
so-called underrepresented groups it it
was just this uh you know they said the
quiet part out loud which is essentially
that they were going to use this brand
that has for 100 years built goodwi and
trust with parents uh to to inculcate in
children the the sort of woke politics
of the now we felt a real need to
challenge that we committed to spend
$100 million over three years pursuing a
challenge to it and yesterday we we took
the first step which is launching this
new app this new company bentkey with
four original shows uh with over 18
licensed shows from around the world
that have all been carefully vetted to
First be highly entertaining for kids
and second not to betray the values of
the kinds of people who find Value in
your work or in Daily wire's work or Ben
Shapiro's work um that that they could
trust that they could put their kids in
front of this content and not and not
receive sort of a woke Sucker Punch for
their
trouble okay so let's delve into that a
little bit so I was thinking the
rejoinder to the implicit suppositions
that you're bringing to bear on this
conversation is something like the
left's insistence that everything is
political you know and when I I taught
this course at Harvard and then at the
University of Toronto and it's online
called maps of meaning and it was about
I think what it's about is the
inevitable religious substrate of
culture itself and I have a reason for
saying inevitably religious and you know
the the students used to ask me you know
why was I
convinced that what I was discussing
wasn't just another ideology among
ideologies which is a variant of the
claim that everything is political now
you know one of the things you and I
have discussed and pero as well at the
daily wire is our belief that everything
isn't political and that there's a
strata of culture that is associated
with deeper narrative let's say and
fairy tales would certainly fit into
that category that has to maintain its
separateness from what's political and
it can now you mentioned you know with
the daily wire
that part of the limitations of its
original
conceptualization was that it was of the
moment and you know I've seen that's a
that's a a box in some ways that Shapiro
has been in he was participating with
the Exodus seminar and I could tell that
was a real pleasure for him because he
got to stretch his in his significant
intellectual abilities beyond the merely
political so what do you think you have
to offer at bent key that isn't
political and is there a way that you
can defend the claim that it's actually
not political and if it's not political
then how do you know it isn't how do you
stop it from being political and and why
should people find that credible given
the political orientation of the daily
wire sure well first of all I don't mean
in any way to say that daily wire isn't
political or that I'm not a political
operator obviously in many ways I am
Shapiro in many ways is and it's perhaps
a political act to launch bent key at
all I mean certainly it's a reaction to
what we see as the excesses of the left
manifesting themselves in particularly
Children's Entertainment but you know if
you look at the broader work that we've
been doing over the last several years
entertainment more more generally I've
learned not to refer to it as adult
entertainment although we would get more
clicks probably if I did so it is a
political action that we're taking but
that's that is distinct from saying in
particular with the kids content that
the content itself will be intended to
communicate politics and I think that
that's a perhaps a subtle but very
important distinction
kids deserve a childhood I think that
you can make a good argument that one of
the problems in our culture is that we
infantilize adults that through the
university system for example we now
refer to 23 year olds as college kids
and expect that they would not be held
accountable for anything that they do as
though they're still juvenile uh legal
standards for 23 year olds who at any
other point in human history would have
been you know
married parents productive in their
societies Perhaps Perhaps have fought in
Wars perhaps be members of uh the clubs
and institutions that used to be a major
part of what held up sort of the the
culture itself you know Church
communities and and other kinds of Civic
organizations now we call them kids but
then on the other hand we take actual
kids and in many ways deny them their
childhoods because we instead are using
them as as sort of social experiments to
see if it's possible to inculcate into
them a set of almost anti-value values I
say anti-value because they're not
anything that would have historically
been considered values and they in many
ways oppose the values on which
civilization thus far has been built and
we want to just see what happens you
what happens if we tell little boys that
they're little girls what happens if we
drug an entire generation of boys out of
all of the sort of biological impulses
that boys have what happens if we have
children marching in political rallies
and use them as political instruments
that's what I don't want bent key to be
so while I'm doing something political
in the launch of bent key what bent key
itself from a Content point of view is
endeavoring to do is say no you know I
don't think that adults are kids but I
think that kids by God should be and we
should provide them with the kind of
content that almost all of us up until
this particular moment got to have in
our youth which was content that took
the values on which our civilization was
built WRA them in a sense of imagination
wrap them in a sense of wonder wrapped
them in a sense of joy and gave children
the opportunity to engage with them not
as not as
lessons uh but as entire worlds in which
they might see themselves and project
themselves into that that's what Ben ke
want to be there's a bunch of thoughts
going on in my mind about how to
distinguish the political from the I
think from the
Eternal and so we could say the deeper a
story is the less it's reflective of the
immediate moment and the more it's
reflective of the Eternal now the
problem with that is that it gets if it
gets too reflective of the Eternal it
tends to float away mer elad historian
of religions he called that uh the the
deos ABS scandis The God Who floats away
essentially and one of the things that
eliad did that was very interesting was
note that the Nan death of God was
actually a recurring Motif in culture
that a society would be founded on a
religious Revelation which was its core
narrative and then it would run in some
ways till it exhausted that narrative or
ran into a counter proposition that took
it out or it degenerated you know it
degenerated into sort of a multi-headed
paganism something like that but that it
wasn't uncommon for God to disappear and
God would disappear so to speak when his
conceptualization became so far removed
from the concrete that it was as if he
was he's SL like the god of Einstein
just sort of an abstract Cosmic Force
right now you want to find a great
narrative you you la you you announced
the first liveaction movie that you're
going to produce Snow White which is a
very interesting choice because it was
the movie of course that Disney based
his Empire on but also it's a Timeless
fairy tale now a Timeless fairy tale is
it's sort of halfway between the
ultimately religious and the proximal
and and and temporally bound and we we
have evidence there is evidence from the
historical uh from historical research
that some of the fairy tales that are
commonly known are up to 15,000 years
old so and the reason that's relevant is
because they've demonstrated their
Eternal relevance merely as a
consequence of being remembered that
long and so one of the ways that the
reason I'm saying this is because what
there's a technical way to some degree
that you can distinguish what's merely
political from what's Timeless and
eternal because what has the latter
properties is so ancient and unchanging
and and one of the things I learned in
this Exodus seminar and this was mostly
from Jonathan pasel because he developed
this idea most most specifically and
accurately was that for a society to
order itself properly it has to order
itself under a pyramidal structure and
one element of that pyramidal structure
is horizontal and that would be the
Jacob's Ladder leading up to heaven and
the other axis is communitarian and so
that's reflected in a popular culture
you might say well if enough people
believe it it's true and you could also
say that you should go along with the
crowd unless you have reason not to and
you should say that you should be
socialized into your cultural mores and
the objection to that is well what do
you do then when the society goes off
the rails and how can a society go to
off the rails if it's only consensus it
goes off the rails like Nazi Germany or
after the French Revolution or with the
Soviets and the answer to that is well
you need that horizontal axis that
orients you towards what's Timeless and
that and the landing Point here is well
that's one of the things that great
stories do right they they bring God
down to earth a little bit so that he's
more human and more accessible that's a
way of thinking about it but they also
escap the constraints of what's
immediate and they're not political and
so let's take this Snow White story for
for for example I mean you you place
Brett Cooper as the star that's a very
interesting choice she's not your
classic Snow White she's quite an
athletic and like a a robust looking
person right she's a tough cookie Brett
and and how do you know and why are you
convinced that your
political affiliations beliefs have
haven't skewed your narrative
comprehension why do you think you're a
reasonable judge of that and did you
even have anything to do with the way
that Snow White itself the new movie was
constructed yeah well absolutely
so I don't think that it's possible to
say that that you can completely
separate my politics out obviously the
choices that I make are informed by who
I am what I would say is that I I would
offer two two points of view here one is
about the daily wire and one is about me
let's start with the daily wire the
daily wire was essentially founded by
three men myself Ben Shapiro and Caleb
Robinson the three of us have incredibly
diverse religious backgrounds Caleb uh
grew up and was was very committed in a
religious Circle that that is
Christian um but keeps Jewish law and so
it's a very small flock kind of
mentality there's not a lot of people
who see the world the way that they see
it it's a very small community but a
very devoted community as one must be to
keep all of the religious holidays to
keep Sabbath to keep biblical kosher uh
you know it was a very uh it was a
religious point of view that took work
Ben of course is an orthodox Jew and
everything that accompanies that you
know he you know Ben the Jews suffer the
worst terror attack in living memory of
of any of you know any except the very
oldest Holocaust Survivors who live now
have never seen anything as bad as what
happened 10 days ago and yet Ben didn't
even know about it why because it was
the Sabbath and in Ben's Community
they're so devoted to their religious
beliefs that even in a moment like that
I could not reach Ben with any
electronic device to communicate this
information to him I had to communicate
something to him because I put extra
security on his family and on his home
and so I had the security guard walk up
and tell him some small version of what
had happened but I use it to point out
that Ben is incredibly dedicated to his
beliefs but his beliefs are incredibly
distinct from Caleb's they they share
all these religious holidays they share
many aspects of Old Testament law but
they they depart wildly when the New
Testament comes in to play and then you
have me uh who for 15 years taught a
home Church in Southern California and
who is you know apan you know sort of
New Covenant radical the furthest from
Ben and the furthest from Caleb and what
I think about you know what the Gentile
is to make of the law and other things I
don't mean to get too far off into that
except to say that baked into the very
heart of the daily WI
is fundamental
disagreement between the three founders
on some of the most important questions
while still seeing in one another
kinship and what we see as the fight of
our lifetime in our culture and so for
that
reason you know we rarely get sucked
into sort of Purity politics at the
daily wire I think it's allowed us to
weather a lot of sort of you know what I
what I call um Purity death spirals that
come along in politic itics from time to
time and it makes us each question not
only our own beliefs all the time
because we have to find a way to work
together and build this company around
worldview while not sharing every aspect
of our worldview but it also makes us
question the kind of content that we
make if there's a piece of content that
both Ben and Caleb and I find resonates
well that must mean that it necessarily
transcends some of our disagreements and
I think that that's a fairly good way of
saying that no one of our individual
politics necessarily override
in the content that we make the other
thing I would say is just about me
personally which is you know I'm I'm a
conservative in the American sense but
I'm not a conservative in the classic
European sense that is somewhat
ascendant even in America today you know
I'm I'm very much of the Reagan moment
in America where part of what American
conservatism seeks to conserve is the
unique brand of American liberalism uh
that was that came to the for in our
founding era you know I think that
lowercase liberalism is the immune
system within a traditional Society it
looks out for those who are hard done by
by the structures that are
overwhelmingly good that were generated
from ancient wisdom but that
nevertheless are imperfect in an
imperfect world and that liberalism does
a good job of saying well some people
are dispossessed in these systems some
people you know we need to question
those systems we don't need to burn them
down we don't need to throw them out but
we need to always be working to better
them and we need to be looking after the
people who are left out in those systems
you know this is the sort of all men are
created equal endowed by their creator
with certain unalienable rights brand of
American liberalism very distinct from
French liberalism or european liberalism
and I think an important part of the
American tradition so to the extent that
I'm a conservative I want to maintain
the
institutions uh that I know are
imperfect but I also know underguard our
society but one of those institutions at
least for Americans is this unique brand
of liberalism which has always been
incredibly helpful in helping our system
be again imp perfect but perhaps
healthier than other systems in moments
for example in the 20th century and so
what what comes with my particular brand
of you know American conservatism is
always
self-doubt because the American
liberalism in me knows that my
imperfections are also manifest in the
things that I do and that my American
liberalism says that I also need to be
protecting people from my worst excesses
from my worst impulses that not all of
my decisions are correct that not
everything that I set my hand to is
right and I think that that brings
along I'm I'm certainly in no way
claiming not to fail at this quite often
but I am conscious of the mistakes that
I make as much as I can be uh you know
we we were discussing even before the
show and I won't go into specifics but I
inadvertently harmed someone who who you
and I both hold in high esteem uh
recently I'm not unaware that I did it
and I'm not unaware that I have some
culpability even though I didn't set
about to do it I didn't do it
deliberately I I think that that
particular view though also helps with
this content question that you're asking
I would certainly never suggest that our
content does not in some ways reflect my
political opinions because I'm imperfect
but I think that the the unique mixture
that is the daily wire and the unique
mixture that is my own politics perhaps
uniquely prepares us and me for this
moment of trying to be critical of my
own impulses trying to be critical of my
own beliefs and trying to find something
that transcends them and that speaks to
those institutions on which our
society's been
build absolutely our content will fail
at that but that's what our content's
going to Endeavor to do right well it's
a tricky business he I was reflecting I
I saw the snow white trailer last night
and I would say as a neutral
Observer it's pretty easy for me to
determine whether something I watch or
listen to is of is of a certain quality
now I wouldn't say my judgment in that
regard is uniring but it's not too bad
and I'm reasonably informed on that
front but I did find right away much to
my chagrin and I've experienced this
before that it was difficult for me to
evaluate the Snow White Trailer because
I I know well I work with you guys and I
genuinely wanted to succeed and I
believe that your heart and your
pocketbook is in the right place in
relationship to this it made it very
hard for me to dis decide how I felt
about the trailer so and and so this is
part of the reason I asked the content
question and so your claim is that you
there's a diverse R truly diverse range
of opinion at the daily wire now my
experience just so everybody watching
and listening knows you know I was very
concerned about forming a partnership
with you guys and my negotiating team I
was quite ill while this was happening
but my negotiating team and your side
went back and forth for a long time like
6 months hammering this de deal out and
it was um full-blown boxing match doing
it although always cordial on both sides
and that's how it should be because you
want to hammer out a detail where all
the or a deal where all the details are
hammered out and everyone is thrilled to
be on board and when we finally managed
that I was thrilled to be on board and
then we got a lot of backlash from
people you know and they were afraid
that you guys would interfere with the
free content that I was generating and
that
my my approach
to Public Communication would be
somehow twisted and bent into the more
political daily wire mode and most of
that criticism has disappeared now if I
do something political some of it pops
back up but most of it has disappeared
and also any remaining concerns I had
have disappeared because all I've
experienced while working with the daily
wire has been a very high level of
professional
excellence in everything that's been
done including all the editing of the
various documentaries that I've done
with you guys a real openness to
creative exploration I mean we did I
don't know we've done five documentaries
I think in in a way on a wing and a
promise I said I was going to a certain
place we did this with the biblical
Museum documentary that's one that's
been released I went there and I talked
to people we had a film crew we filmed
hours and hours of content you had a
great editorial staff make that into a
compelling documentary but we didn't
have a detailed business plan for it
worked out and it was spontaneous and
playful and investigative and creative
in the best sense so all I've found
working with you so far and this has
been quite a surprise really is apart
from the high level of professionalism
which makes everything that I've been
able to do done better I've also found
that it's done nothing but facilitate
anything I wanted to do that was
creative and that included The Exodus
seminar because you guys also took a big
risk on that I mean first of all
organizing the first part of it which
was all there was supposed to be which
was about eight episodes and then
doubling the length and you were very
generous about that and everyone who
came down to participate had a
remarkably good time would be happy to
do it again and it was very productive
and so the reason I'm telling that whole
story is because I think I have some
reason to assume that your claim to be
able to engage in a creative Endeavor
rather than a political Endeavor has
some has some gravitas right it's it's
reliable I really saw that with the
documentaries now I contrast that in my
own mind with the other problem which I
mentioned which is yeah but if you're
hoping that someone will succeed and you
are aligned with them in sentiment let's
say it gets hard to actually evaluate
the creative content because you're
biases emerg and
so what sort of response have you got to
the bent key programming for kids that's
already been viewed by children and
parents by your target market and how
has that made you feel about the
possibility like the actuality of
quality and the possibility of success
in that regard well as we sit here the
the app has been live for just over 24
hours and so we're only just now getting
real feedback I mean up until now
everyone who's viewed any of the content
in some way is going to be predisposed
to like it in the ways that you that
you're saying uh so it's early people
are just now engaging with the content
but the the feedback has been very good
except in one place you know deadline
Hollywood ran a story about Snow White
and many of the comments are very
negative but of course that's because
most of the people who read deadline
Hollywood are people who have another
set of biases theirs being against and
so I probably put them in the same
category that I put you you're you're a
friend you're a um a collaborator you're
a a partner at uh uh in many of our
endeavors and so of course your biases
come to Bear their biases are going to
come to Bear but so far the audience has
really responded to the content and we
worked incredibly hard on these original
shows a wonderful day with Mabel
mlay I truly believe uh is a show that
kids 20 years from now will talk about
the way that I talk about Mr Rogers uh
you something that is so dear to me from
my own childhood I think that the creers
of that show Ryan and Katie Chase whom
I've known for many many years were
almost put on Earth to make this content
it's beautiful it's filled with wonder
it's filled with joy it's filled with
imagination it isn't they are not
political operators at all they're
people who ran a improv comedy school
for kids in La for a decade they they
love kids they're delighted by children
they understand children and they've
made a show
that I I put in a category of about five
pieces of content The Exodus seminar
being one of them uh Matt Walsh's
documentary what is a woman being
another this very small group of content
that I believe is uh the things that I'm
the most proud of having published in in
my career then we have chip Chilla the
writers who came over to do chip Chilla
are guys who've been working they worked
on Veggie Tales and other animated shows
in the past highly creative we we worked
very hard to get them on board on the
team much like we worked to get you on
the team The Producers is a guy who came
over from Disney worked was the creator
of the Tangled animated series which is
a true piece of art you know there no
schlubs over at Disney when it comes to
making great content and I'm very proud
of Chip Chilla I think kids love it my
as I sat down my own daughter had not
gotten to see it yet she saw her first
episode before I left the house she's 3
years old and my wife texted me and said
that she just came into her room room
and said Mommy I want to sit on the
potty and watch chip Chilla so that's
one vote of that's one vote of
confidence I think people are really
going to respond to that content but it
is a it is a journey most of the people
who are excellent at making this kind of
content are making it you don't become
excellent without experience and if you
have experience it's because you've been
working within the very system that
we're challenging and so of course the
the undertaking is is enormous you
building up to the kind of quality that
you see at Disney we're going to miss
we're going to we're going to strive
there going to be times where we hit it
there's going to be times where we miss
we're going to learn from our mistakes
we're going to get better as we go you
know I always laugh at people who walk
out of the hospital with their first kid
and they have a world's world's greatest
dad ball cap and I always think buddy
you're not even a you're not even a
mediocre dad you've been a dad for
you've been a dad for 17 hours you know
it's an aspirational statement though
the hat right and so I would right now
wear a world's greatest kids content
producer hat not because it's what I am
but it's because what I aspire to be we
we believe that this is an important
charge we believe that it is the mission
of a lifetime to help reclaim our
culture in all the ways that matter most
we're going to pour ourselves into it uh
to the point of well as we' poured
ourselves into everything else to the
point of breaking and finding joy in the
sheer difficulty of it because we
believe we believe in the thing that
we're doing and yeah well you you guys
are a strange bunch of concern atives
you know and and maybe that's a
consequence of the strange fracturing of
the political landscape because well
first of all a Libertarian conservative
is not that easy to distinguish from a
classic liberal in many ways and so but
then you know the research I did and
that was done by a number of
psychologists at the same time showed
quite clearly that say 10 years ago the
best predictors of conservative belief
on the temperament side were low
openness which is interest in ideas is
an interest in Aesthetics and certainly
it's low interest in Aesthetics in
particular that was one of the big
predictors of classic conservatism in
our studies and that would argue very
strongly against being interested in
something particularly like child's
literary entertainment right so and then
and so it now but it is the case that
all of the people that I've worked with
at the daily wire have this very very
high level of interest in Creative
production and so that does say
something strange about the
fractionating of culture but it's also
something I find that I find a difficult
to you're a complex sort of person to
understand and so I wanted to delve into
that a little bit and so you you have
this background in in in Christian
teaching and now you've started this
crazy company which seems to be working
extremely well and now you're branching
out into the entertainment world now the
dailywire has produced a number of
movies we could talk about those
momentarily with some degree of success
it's like
I don't understand how it is that you're
that guy like where did you develop your
interested in enter in entertainment why
do you think you have the aesthetic
capacity to make the kind of judgments
necessary to run a well what's what's
attempting to be a full-fledged
Entertainment Network like why do you
think that's you and and if it is you
how did you come to have those abilities
now you're in Europe we could talk about
this too very deeply involved in this
pen Dragon cycle I I'd like to hear more
about that but like where did these
interests come from in you and and why
do you think you have the ability to
manage
this well the first question first where
does it come from you know I I grew up
in a very rural town in West Texas uh
called Slayton and it's on the flattest
land mass on Earth called the Yano
esticado it's it's we have towns with
names like level land and Plain View uh
a town called no trees it's it is truly
flat and desolate what we have in
abundance is Sky because there's nothing
to obscure your view of it and this
particular region has produced an
enormous disproportionate number of
successful musical stars from Buddy
Holly who was who was very famously from
LC Texas Natalie Ms of the Dixie Chicks
Joe elely uh lean wac you know went to
school out there a lot of country stars
in particular and so a lot of people
wonder why this area has produced a
disproportionate number of artists in
music but those of us who grew up in it
and my best friend my childhood best
friend's father sort of ran the local
entertainment industry he ran the local
music industry in that part of the world
so I I had access to all of that growing
up you know I I wasn't very good at
sports but I you know was working
backstage at theatrical and musical
Productions at the theater that he owned
or at bars or other things from a very
young age in fact the key that I wear
around my neck for which our company is
named the bent key was the key to a
regional theater in Post Texas called
the Garza theater where I grew up doing
plays I had access to this wonderful
world of entertainment and what I
understood from from the people I was
getting to work with the adults I was
getting to work with is that it was the
desolation of that area it was the fact
that we had no trees to look at and
nothing but Sky Joe eely says we had
nothing but a but a desolate void to
fill and I think that's true and so for
any of us who had any bent in that
direction you couldn't produce enough to
ever fill that void you'd look up at the
sky as your for your inspiration instead
of being able to look around you and
that's what took me ultimately to
California sure a little bit of manifest
destiny but an awful lot of stars in my
eyes I moved out there because I wanted
to be an actor I wanted to be a producer
I got out there and realized very
quickly that I didn't have what it took
to be a successful actor that was a very
hard moment in my life and I really
myself I I what I came to realize is
that
the environment that I grew up in I
thought was teaching me to be an actor
but it wasn't what it was teaching me to
be was a producer and by producer what I
mean is someone who creates something
out of nothing that in a way the acting
that I had done in my youth hadn't been
the kind of acting that true actors do
it had been the kind of acting that a
producer does the acting that is
necessary to create the something out of
nothing you know I would walk around at
16 15 14 years old I would walk around
with a can of black spray paint in one
hand and a script in the other because I
both had lines to act in the show and I
was concerned with touching up the paint
on the prum at the front of the stage
because I hated that people would come
in and see the N the dings and the Nicks
from where the set had been built or in
other words everything that I was doing
was to try to ultimately create this
aesthetic experience and acting was just
in service of that but I didn't know I I
like the maturity to know that
you one of the things I talk about very
often is how I I've gotten to live a
dream life truly Dr Peterson I'm in
Croatia 3 days ago I was in Italy three
days before that I was in Slovenia I was
in Hungary uh you know but I live a
dream life in many ways because I let my
dreams die I had these dreams as a young
man and they were very useful for
getting me out the front door they were
very useful for putting me on the on the
path but if I had held to them too
tightly
that the path would have led to nowhere
and because by God's grace I had that's
a great OB that's a great observation
you know because I counsel people to
develop a vision for their life because
if you don't have a vision for your life
you're going to be playing a role in
someone else's vision and it might not
be one you would award to yourself but I
also say don't assume that it's the
precise that the precise details of this
Vision are what going to unfold but
actually what what it is is it's a it's
a self-correcting system is you aim up
but you don't really know what you're
doing and then you wander towards that
up and as you go you collect more
information and that enables you to
modify the vision so I would say maybe
tell me what you think about this that
it wasn't so much that your dreams died
is that as you pursued them they got
sharper and clearer and that meant you
had to leave some of the excess detail
behind but you do when you when you when
you translate a vague notion like I like
to go to Hollywood and be successful
that's a pretty vague plan when you
transfer that into the real world that
should sharpen right you should find
your specific Destiny and that's also by
the way that's the Bringing Down to
Earth of the meta narrative right I mean
the meta narrative is young man from
small town goes to Hollywood and makes
good but there's not a lot of detail in
that and you flesh that out as you move
forward and sharpen your vision and and
so you found that you had specific
Talent more on the production end so
what did you discover about yourself
that was relevant to the production side
of things and how did that tangle up
with the with the um with the
instantiation of the daily wire and then
its expansion into entertainment well I
would say when I was a child I thought
as a child right I had this dream as you
say it had it was it was nothing if not
ambiguous it seemed it seemed clear to
me because my exposure to the world had
been so small you know go west make good
as you say that that that seemed
substantial but of course anyone who's
lived any life as an adult at all knows
that that's not substantial in any way
that has there's nothing there you can
hang your life on so I came to Hollywood
and I immediately began failing in fact
one of the great criticisms that people
make if you even read comments about the
the kids announcement of the Snow White
announcement this week you'll read many
people saying Jeremy boring is a failed
film producer he's ated it again failed
screenwriter Ben Shapiro and I always
think that's a very funny criticism I
mean after
all I I don't say this with any sense of
arrogance I say it simply as a matter of
fact I'm quite successful uh in any
material sense I I am a quite successful
person um that success is built at top
all of the failures that my detractors
online are trying to mock me for what
they what they don't understand is how
proud I am of those failures how
instrumental those failures were in
helping
me to come however far I've come and
it'll be future failures that take me
wherever it is that I ultimately go
a few decades ago private citizens used
to be largely that private the internet
has changed this think about everything
you've browsed searched for watched or
tweeted now imagine all of that data
being crawled through collected and
aggregated by Third parties into a
permanent public record your record
having your private life exposed for
others to see was once something only
celebrities worried about but in an era
where everyone is online everyone is a
public figure to keep my data private
when I go on online I turned to
expressvpn did you know there are
hundreds of data Brokers out there whose
sole business is to buy and sell your
data the worst part is they don't have
to tell you who they're selling it to or
get your consent one of these data
points is your IP address data
Harvesters use your IP to uniquely
identify you and your location but with
expressvpn my connection gets rerouted
through an encrypted server and my IP
address is masked every time I turn
expressvpn on I'm given a random IP
address shared by other expressvpn
customers that makes it more difficult
for third parties to identify me and
harvest my data and the best part is how
easy expressvpn is to use no matter what
device you're on phone laptop or smart
TV all you have to do is tap one button
to get protected so if like me you
believe that your data is your business
secure yourself with the number one
rated VPN on the market visit
expressvpn.com
Jordan that's expressvpn.com Jordan for
three extra months free expressvpn.com
Jordan well you know a a failure failure
is a very interesting way of thinking
about something it's it's a foolish way
of thinking about something if you're
committed to the end goal I mean what
I've learned in my life is that I've
never done
anything that I actually did that wasn't
a success now I would add a coded to
that which is that doesn't mean it would
it succeeded the way I thought it would
right so but but if you put your heart
into something and the original end that
you had conceived of doesn't make itself
manifest that doesn't mean that you
didn't learn 10,000 useful things that
you're going to be able to apply to the
next project it also doesn't mean that
I've often salvaged projects from years
later when I think oh okay well that
didn't work out there but I've got all
that sitting there that I've mastered I
can now apply it to this and I I truly
don't believe that I've ever put my
heart into anything in a committed way
that hasn't really radically paid off
even though the time frame of that
payoff was indeterminate and the the the
potential initial goal might not have
been realized and then the other thing I
would say about the critics who are
criticizing your repeated failures is
that they don't know anything about
entrepreneurial activity and I I studied
entrepreneurial activity technically for
a very long time time and one of the
things that you see with entrepreneurs
is that and you see this with Venture
Capital investors is that the ratio of
failure to success is very high and you
have to do a lot of things before
something goes viral and bears fruit but
that doesn't mean that all those other
attempts that didn't magically Catch
Fire were failures it just means that
you have to you have to do a lot of
things before any one thing really
catches on and so if you think that you
can be success uccessful without failure
you don't know anything about how to be
successful so that's just a foolish
criticism now it does sound to me too
oddly though you know because people
watching and listening and watching The
Daily wire their presumption is going to
be something like and this would have
been mind is that all of the major
players in the daily wire world were
basically politically oriented people
who decided to make a foray into the
entertainment world but what you're
telling me was that in your case and
this might be true with Shapiro too cuz
I know he was extremely interested in
music is that you are actually primarily
interested in in entertainment so to
speak and it's not such a stupid word
entertainment because that's not what it
is let's call it culture you were
primarily interested in dramatic culture
rather than politics and so this is
actually for you this is actually a
return to what you had originally
dreamed of and envisioned both in both
in the general and in the particular I'm
I'm as you say I'm in Europe producing
this pin Dragon cycle when I was 20
years old s 21 years old sitting in a uh
apartment I couldn't afford in the worst
part of the San Fernando Valley truly
looking for quarters under the couch to
see if I could afford dollar menu Jack
in the Box I as a teenager had been in
love with Steven lad's novels the pin
dragon cycle it's a it's a young adult
series about Arthurian myth and about
the fall of Roman Britain and the sort
of Rise of sub Roman Britain and the
preservation of Christianity in this
very small Celtic area in
Wales and it deeply shaped my worldview
I mean these books were incredibly
formative for me and at 21 I'm I I've
realized that I can't make it as an
actor I don't really know what my life
is supposed to be I'm desperately poor
um and I started writing adaptations of
these novels I didn't own the the right
I I had not I had not optioned the
rights from the author to write these
adaptations I didn't even know there was
such a thing as optioning the rights uh
I was I was that young and that naive
and I labored for two years trying to
work on this and here I am at the
Fulfillment of this moment where I'm
actually producing not not only have I
returned to sort of my original dream of
making this cultural content in the
general but in the very particular but
even that wasn't by design it it was it
was by taking the steps that were in
front of me by accepting the outcomes
that weren't the outcomes I didn't
always accept them gracefully uh but I
ultimately because of Grace was able to
accept them and there for was able to
keep growing in life and and the circle
brought me back around to this moment
yes Ben Shapiro was a virtuosic
violinist as a young man there's a
beautiful video of him playing the theme
from Schindler's List for Larry King
when he's nine years old or something
Andrew claven who was there from the
very founding of the daily wire
obviously was a his he had an entire
life as a fiction as a as a novelist
before he ever engaged with politics at
all he had written screenplays for big
Hollywood films with Michael Douglas
Clint Eastwood and others
uh we were we were part of this West
Coast breit bardian by which I mean
Andrew breit bardian conservative moment
that happened where all these
entertainment industry people began to
realize that the culture had slipped out
from under them and through people like
Andrew brart through organizations like
friends of Abe which I ended up being
the executive director of for five years
in La which was this underground group
of 2500 entertainment industry
professionals who would meet in secret
for fear of being discovered as
conservatives would would come together
and that that moment was so unique uh
and it bore so much fruit and I think
it's part of why daily wire is is unique
we're unique a because of the sort of
built-in worldview differences between
Shapiro boring and Robinson were unique
because we came out of this melu of of
cultural entertainment West Coast
conservatism that happened in LA in the
mid 2000s this very unique moment in in
time and we're unique because we don't
Pander to our audience we're unique
because we're lowercase our Republicans
because we believe that our job is yes
never to betray our audience yes to
represent our audience but also to lead
our audiences you know we we don't give
our audience exactly what they think
that they want because our belief is
that they don't actually want what they
may think superficially that they want
right now that doesn't mean I have the
right to betray my audience to give them
what they decidedly do not want but
people will write in all the time and
say you when are you going to make a
Christian movie well I know they don't
actually want a Christian movie I know
that because I see the box office
numbers
for those those types of movies right I
know that what they what they what
they're crying out for is for Christians
for example to make truly entertaining
and meaningful content for them the way
that they express that if you're if
you're a populist you would just give
them exactly what they're expressing but
give them giving them exactly misses
that transcendental access well I think
this is the problem with leading by poll
like one of the things you learn as a
research psychologist is that it's not
that easy to figure out what people
think and you can't find out just by
asking them one question first of all
the question sets up the answer so you
have to ask them a whole panoply of
questions to get anything near anything
like their actual opinions and then it
is also the case that so what does it
mean to lead under those circumstances
this forit this is where the for-profit
mechanism is so powerful because I have
two conversations with my audience I
have the polling conversation what do
you want and they tell me what they want
to
want but then I have my for-profit
conversation which is where I give them
options and they tell me with their
actions what they actually want right
exactly right there there's a kind of
content that we all want to want and
then there's the kind of content that we
actually want that we actually engage
with and that's that's what we're trying
to do at the daily wire we're we are
trying to give our audience what they
want just not necessarily what they want
to want that's the right that's the
tension that we're living well and that
well that's what a that's what a real
political leader should do too is rather
than and I've SE so I've actually seen
many many political leaders founder on
exactly this problem because they start
out motivated by commitment to a set of
principles assuming they're not just you
know the psychopathic types are out for
themselves but they start by being
motivated by a set of principles and
then they Ally themselves with political
Consultants because they're afraid of
their own inexperience they hire people
to run their Campaign which you can't do
because it's your campaign they hire
people to write their speeches and then
they just get transformed into another
stamped political product and they
almost always fail right and so you need
that you you can't you can't rely on
foolish sampling of public opinion to
govern what you're going to offer
because the public is striving towards
something
but if they had it they could describe
it but if they're aspiring towards it
they're still stumbling towards its
description and then it's incumbent on
the leaders to listen and to to take
them to the next step and that is what a
great Storyteller should do and that the
failure to do that will be punished by
the market because a Christian movie
could be just as propagandistic and dull
and is very much likely to be like if
it's explicitly Christian it's because
it's not a movie it's a piece of
propaganda designed to push really
what's a political agenda not even a
religious agenda it's a political agenda
disguised as a religious agenda and
certainly people who Proclaim their
Christianity all too loudly are just as
likely to fall prey to that temptation
as anyone else what people want is a
story that captures their imagin
right and the imagination too it's
different than so the the the the neural
system that governs the imagination is a
different system than the system that
governs linguistic content it's more
archaic it's more emotional it's more
instinctual it's less attuned to the
moment it's less specific and adapted to
immediacy so it's got a it's got a local
impracticality but it's got a medium to
long-term vision
a much broader vision
and great cultural drama appeals to the
imagination and it has to be of the
pattern of the imagination and that may
be quite distinct like one of the things
I've really been struck with for example
is just as political correctness hit its
height the Marvel Universe became most
popular and it was fascinating for me to
watch because Tony Stark is as close to
a fascist as any Hollywood Hero has ever
been right I mean he's a military
industrial self-absorbed hyper anran
capitalist right so he's as far away
from woke as you could be and then and
so that was extremely interesting to see
although the Marvel people until
recently never took the bait they never
got political and so they kept the
politics implicit in the story and then
I watched the Black Widow with Scarlet
Johansson and you couldn't have come up
with a more anti-woke movie if you would
have scripted it for that purpose and
but because that wasn't why it was
scripted it was successful I mean the
Black Widow was literally about a
communist
demagogue quasi god who lived in the sky
who was a remnant of the Communist
Empire taking over the minds of young
women and destabilizing the whole world
it's like well yeah looks like that's
happening and then what was so strange
too is that yanson who was the savior in
the in the narrative the only reason
that she was able to break the hold of
this propaganda on the minds of her
female compatriots was because she had
been raised in something approximating a
loving nuclear family even though it was
it was deeply flawed and partly false
and so so why am I saying all that well
it's because you will get punished by
the market if you do turn your your D
cultural dramas into Political
propaganda and it's it's also very
comical to see the weird reversal here
too because what you see happening in
Hollywood is that the actors dream of
being political activists and they seem
I've had conversations with Hollywood
actors about this I said look you guys
are already you already occupy a kind of
Pinnacle why would you subordinate that
Pinnacle to the political you're
subordinating the greater the dram
dramatic culture to the Lesser now you
guys are taking the reverse T because
you made your your largest scale success
in an essentially political realm and
now you want to transcend that and move
into the
cultural so it's very fascinating to
watch this well
I've I watched I have lived through I
think the most rapid trans political
transformation on on probably in human
history
I mean in 2008 Barack Obama could not be
elected president as a Democrat if he
opposed gay marriage and in 2012 Barack
Obama could not be elected as a Democrat
if he I'm sorry yeah he he could not be
elected in 2008 if he supported gay
marriage I'm sorry and he could not be
elected in 2012 if he opposed gay
marriage in four
years there was that rapid a change on
an issue so deeply fundamental about
which there were such deeply held
beliefs such deeply held passions how
could that change so quickly and what
changed obviously is culture and we
could you know we can debate whether
that was good or bad or was it some good
and some bad that's not even the
conversation I'm trying to engage in I'm
only interested in the fact of it and
the the fact that the the Overton window
had shifted so far and what shifted it
you know 80% of what shifted it was a
single network television show called
Will and Grace that for the first time
on NBC on the biggest Network for comedy
every single day you know 15 million
people brought into their homes these
vibrant wonderful characters who were
gay and it fundamentally transformed how
they saw that
issue that is that is a power that
politicians obviously don't have if they
did Barack Obama wouldn't have had to
have changed he always supported gay
marriage so you would have never heard
him oppose gay marriage in the first
place if politics is where the real
power lives politics is incredibly
powerful of course but it has to operate
within a cultural window and the real
failure of the right in America in my
lifetime is that they seated all of that
ground almost completely to the
left the Bible is the root of all wisdom
inspiration and spiritual nourishment
the Hallow app empowers you to explore
the Bible's profound teachings and to
effortlessly incorporate them into your
daily life a great place to start while
you deepen your understanding of the
Bible is to check out father schmitz's
Bible in a year available on the Hallow
app for brief daily readings and
Reflections here you can dive into an
extensive library of Bible reading plans
accompanied by insightful Reflections
and audio guided meditations whether
you're a seasoned Bible reader or just
starting your journey Hall provides a
platform for you to engage with
scripture like never before studying the
Bible's literary Brilliance has
influenced countless writers poets and
artists throughout history by studying
the Bible yourself you'll gain a deeper
appreciation for the power of
Storytelling symbolism and metaphor
enriching your understanding of
literature across different genres the
Hallow app also helps you connect with a
community of like-minded individuals
sharing experiences insights and
encouragement along the path to
spiritual growth download the app for
free at hall.com Jordan you can set
reminders and track your progress along
the way enrich your education and
nurture your mind and soul today
download the Hallow app at hall.com
Jordan that's hall.com
Jordan hall.com / Jordan for an
exclusive 3-month free trial of all
10,000 plus prayers and
meditations right right okay so let
let's I I've got two threads to to walk
off on from that point the first
is this has been a weird reversal too I
mean one of the strangest things I've
seen in the last decade and I've seen a
lot of strange things in the last decade
by the way was the Babylon
B uh comedians interviewed Jonathan pajo
it was a Preposterous interview because
pajo was speaking very seriously about
the architectural and mythological
significance of the monsters on the
outside of medieval Cathedrals and
relating that to the fuzzy edges of
cognitive and perceptual categories
which is a very sophisticated
intellectual discussion and these idiot
commentators from The Babylon B and I
mean idiot in the best possible way were
cracking absurd jokes in the background
and acting like Frat Boys and being very
comical but keeping up with the
conversation and Paso was cracking jokes
along with them and keeping up quite
nicely and that was all done in the name
of Christian satire which is like what
do you mean Christian satire Christian
satire I mean I think the Babylon bee
has taken out The Onion that's what it
looks like to me and it's like what what
the hell where did Christian satirists
come from and so I'm curious here what
do you think's going on the first is how
did you reconcile the conflict between a
kind of traditional Christian Protestant
American evangelism and the
entertainment industry because that
that's quite the damn Gulf and uh and
why do you think that can be
successfully bro that Gulf why do you
think it should be I mean you you you
talked about the importance of culture
but that doesn't mean that you should
Dance with the Devil you know to lead
people down the appropriate Road and
that must
have the Hollywood culture even though
you want to be part of it there must
have there must have been a moral
quander there oh yeah people would
always say in Hollywood in in Christian
Hollywood when I was in my 20s they
would say we have to reclaim Hollywood
for Christ and I'd be like guys he was
never here uh I think that right all the
bests are with Satan as B Simpson said
yeah right that's right I think that it
is American protestantism that's part of
it for me though I'm you know I'm I'm
decidedly not Catholic or Mainline
Protestant I didn't grow up in a church
that has uh deep historic
roots and so I think probably if I'm
being honest with myself you know I know
a lot of people who grow up in who are
very devoted Catholics or very devoted
episcopalians very devoted Presbyterians
I I don't even know if they believe in
Christ I don't know if they even believe
in the Bible but they they certainly
have had enormous benefit and enormous
structure put in their life by these
traditions probably even more precisely
I know many anglicans who fit that
description you know they're they're
incredibly intelligent and they
understand the value of their church but
they don't necessarily believe that it's
true and I I understand that I think
that that's a a somewhat tragic view but
I think that it's a perfectly relatable
view especially if you're in one of
those institutions that has such history
but I didn't grow up in that kind of an
institution I grew up in a kind of
American evangelicalism that I think is
somewhat
ungrounded uh in many ways that I think
are actually you know as an adult I can
say in many ways that I think are bad
but one of the benefits that it has and
one of the benefits that it gave to me
is probably my my belief in God is
because of narrative it's not because of
institution in other words I came to
believe in God because of the story of
God because of the the Redemptive story
of Christ and so in in that sense I
understand the power of story you know
we we are interesting creatures aren't
we because we're we're both material and
immaterial right we're we're meat and we
are the thing that transcends meat it's
very hard to know where the line between
those two things is probably because in
an sort of ultimate sense there isn't
one it's very hard to understand where
illnesses begin you and I I mean you far
more than me but certainly both of us in
our life have seen bad
thoughts actually lead to physical
destruction and so you know did did the
thing that that began the thing that
began in the physical world transcended
into the spiritual world for a person
and certainly if you believe any of the
stories of of the Bible the New
Testament or the old you must believe
that there are things that start in the
spiritual that then manifest themselves
in the physical somehow that that door
swings both ways and we don't fully
understand that the problem though with
the sort of conservatism you described
earlier the conservatism that doesn't
care about narrative that doesn't care
about aesthetic my argument would be yes
but narrative and aesthetic care about
you right right that's for sure right
narrative is real narrative is a for is
an active force in the world and so I
The Narrative impacted me and changed my
life and so it's that understanding of
the power of narrative that caused me to
be drawn in that direction okay okay
well you know I'm I'm writing this new
book called we who wrestle with God and
um it's going quite nicely and one of
the arguments that I lay out in there
and I believe this to be true at
multiple levels simultaneously it's it's
true scientifically it's true
philosophically it's true metaphysically
it's true religiously all of that is
that a description of the structure
through which we perceive the world is a
story that's what a story is and you
cannot perceive the world without a
story this is why the empiricists and
the postmodernists got this right by the
way this is why the empiricists are
wrong there's a trillion facts you have
to rank order them in terms of their
value and a description of that rank
ordering is a story so when you watch
someone on screen walk through their
life what you're seeing are the choices
they make the value choices they make
and the consequences and we're so
interested in that because we want to
fill in our narrative so that we have a
narrative that will allow us to orient
ourselves in the world properly and the
biblical narrative is the is the meta
Narrative of Western culture and there's
no escaping that now what the
postmodernists did wrong after realiz
izing that we saw the world through a
story was insist that that story was one
of power and if you think the ruler of
the world is the person who wields the
most power you are literally the
farthest thing from a Christian you
could possibly be because the entire
judeo-christian narrative Moses we
talked about this in The Exodus seminar
Moses is forbidden from entering the
promised land even though he had led the
Israelites Faithfully for decades under
the most app conditions merely because
he uses Force once when God tells him
instead to use his words and that's it
it's like the punishment is hey you're
right in the border of the promised land
but you used your staff to hit the Rocks
when you were told to speak and you
don't get to proceed and so you made
yourself you you well and you also made
the assumption that you that's exactly
right you you used Force you used your
ability to compel when you should have
used your ability to invite and to
entice you didn't tell the right story
you used Thomas Jefferson makes This
brilliant Thomas Jefferson makes a
brilliant argument in his uh he he wrote
the Virginia Charter of religious
freedom and in the in the preamble to
freedom I won't quote it because I would
misquote it but he essentially
says since God alone has both the power
and the right to compel us to believe
and since he chose not to who would we
be to do
otherwise right great great yeah great
absolutely well that yeah yeah precisely
and that and the insistence that in the
judeo-christian tradition that we do
have true choice true free choice and
that we can use that in the moral domain
and that is been reserved to us that is
part and parcel of the notion that we
have responsibility and the right to our
own destiny I mean one of the things
things you see I've been I've been
writing about the Prophet Elijah in this
new book and Elijah is an interesting
figure because he's one of the prophets
that shows up on the mount when Christ
is transfigured it's Moses and Elijah
and it's like you might ask well who's
Elijah right you know who Moses is but
Elijah is the first person first of all
to take a stance against the no he's the
most outstanding Exemplar of the people
who took a stance against deifying
nature so he's the enemy of the prophets
of Bal and B is a nature God right the
god of the earthquake the god of the
environmentalists Bal is a variant of
Gia although he's male and so and Elijah
realizes that whatever God is is not
nature despite Nature's awesome capacity
and ability to to elicit something you
know approximating admir admiration and
awe it's not it's not the earthquake and
it's not the it's not the hurricane it's
not the storm it's instead the still
Small Voice Within that's where that
line comes from and so and so there's
the so that that the con conscience has
to be free in that regard and and that's
all right so let me ask you another
question here so the other thing that
people are going to be skeptical about
I'm less skeptical about this now you
know because I've worked with some of
your very talented people Jonathan Haye
and Elliot Feld for example brilliant
editors brilliant and being an editor is
very hard work and they're very good at
it they can get to the core of a story
and I've seen them do that multiple
times
that takes a very special talent and
someone who's awake you know that's hard
now where are you getting your
talent and how do you select them on the
creative side you know because you'd
think well who's going to go work for
daily for the new daily wire Enterprise
I mean I know there's a lot of
disaffected people in the entertainment
industry and they're sick and tired of
being told what to do and having their
talents subverted to the woke mob but
but but I'm curious you've collected a
lot of creative people around you and
how have you done that and how do you
assess and evaluate them yeah well one
one thing that I would say is it's much
easier with kids entertainment than it
has been with our more General
entertainment um with with General
entertainment there are a lot of
disaffected people as you say in
Hollywood they want to come over and be
a part of something that they believe in
the challenge is I can't offer them a
career I can only offer them a job and
if the job that I offer them gets in
could actually be detrimental to their
career well then that's a pretty bad
bargain
so one of the things that we're
endeavoring to do obviously Get Talent
where we can uh to grow Talent
internally you know to stretch ourselves
over time and success to be able to show
people look this isn't a flash in the
pan there's going to be more and more
opportunity over here I think that will
draw more and more talent to take that
that leap and come over and work with us
on the kids front it's been much easier
the second I announced that we were
doing this we had huge writers from
Dreamworks in Disney huge producers from
Dreamworks and Disney and other animated
uh and kids entertainment companies jump
ship and come straight to us and at
first I didn't understand why because
they're they're taking in some ways an
even bigger risk but then I realized oh
it makes sense if if you had come to me
when I was 25 let's say and said Jeremy
we read this pilot that you wrote it's
fantastic we really like it we'd love to
make it but you know you're going to
have to put uh an anti-gun agenda in
there and the one character is going to
have to have abortion and these two men
are going to kiss in the third act I
would have
been I may have said no because I'm a
bit of a contrarian at heart but I may
have said yes you know because I I
wanted so badly for those uh dreams to
come true but if you tell me to do that
for a show that's going to be marketed
to seveny olds well now there's really
no conflict at all I simply cannot do it
I cannot have train I'm I'm not going to
for any amount of money for any amount
of my dreams coming true get comfortable
with putting transgendered characters in
shows aimed at seven-year olds and since
that is actually what's happening at
these major Hollywood Studios right now
people who people who were drawn to kids
entertainment in particular are people
who love kids they love the innocence of
children the Youth of children they feel
a responsibility you know the people who
work at Disney are a special breed
they're I've worked with some of them
now they're damn near impossible by the
way they're it's terrible to manage them
because they're so creative they're so
full of they're so full of life they're
so full of vision it makes them
challenging to manage they're incredible
artists truly in every sense of the word
and and they feel deeply responsible for
the content that they create whereas if
you ask me to be a writer on Game of
Thrones it may go against some of my
values but I'd be stoked to be working
on the biggest show I'd be stoked to be
working with the best people in the
industry and I'd console myself at night
with the knowledge that adults can make
their own choices adults have the right
to engage with content maybe the people
who watch it won't even agree with it
but they'll enjoy for other reasons you
don't feel that way with little kids so
from the second we launched the
disaffected in general entertainment put
out feers to us keep us posted they'll
come take a meeting and then they'll
back off on the kids front it's where do
we sign up uhuh uhhuh what they're being
asked to do in their daily lives is evil
and they don't want to participate in
evil so what sort of applicant pool have
you been able to draw from like how many
I don't know how many people you've
hired in the bent key apparatus who are
creative can you can you give us an
approximate
number yeah you know I've because I've
been out of the country for the last
many months on this leave of absence and
I'm I found out yesterday that since
I've left we've hired almost 30 people
uh which is that's a lot that's a big
number of my company now that I've never
even met but it's it's necessary for how
we're doing things for me to be on this
leave but I would say two
dozen creatives in the in the kids
entertainment is probably an accurate
number right so it's still a small
number and how many how many how many
inquiries have you had about the
possibility of such
positioning
daily okay okay so you have a huge
applicant pool to select pool and people
like I say people who've worked at very
high levels at very big studios uh right
so it must be tempting to hire all of
them yeah if we had the resources we
would have hired probably all of them by
now you know it is we grow out of cash
flow you'll you'll read all these rumors
about how we're funded by billionaires
we spend over $200 million a year you'd
have to be quite a billionaire to fund
the daily wire there's not I know it's
it's hard for people to understand how
money works but a guy with a billion
dollars can't spend $200 million a year
on propping up the daily wire the daily
wire is a for well he also doesn't in
most cases he also doesn't have that
money it's not like I always think of
the Scrooge McDuck image because that's
what people think you know that the
typical billionaire has a money bin
where he goes and swims in pennies and
your money is out there if you have more
money than you need for your daily
Necessities your money is invested in
all sorts of things it's it's not it's
yours to control but it's not it's not
yours in the simple sense that you have
the money in your wallet or if it is
you're you're being foolish with your
money so right that's number the number
of people on the number of people on
planet Earth who could just fund an
operation like the daily wire is
remarkably small it's not even
billionaires it's Deca
billionaires uh we the daily wire can go
away tomorrow in if we fail and that's a
very real possibility all all the time
there have been numerous moments in the
history of the company where we've come
right up against it and even that is a
huge lesson to me it's not I wouldn't
have known that until I took this
journey I always thought in the in the
early years I thought well we'll reach a
point eventually where there's some
stability but we keep expanding we keep
growing if you're not growing you're
dying you know the first year that might
be the only real stability Jeremy you
know because a biological organism tends
to deteriorate very rapidly if it isn't
growing and expanding right there's the
real stability might be that creative
Edge and that's particularly going to be
true if you're in entertainment and what
that does mean or in in cultural drama
let's say what that does mean and this
is one of the things I've really found
exciting by the way about working with
the daily wire because I've worked with
a lot of different organizations now and
some of them were quite great like
Harvard was great in the 90s when I was
there and I've started a number of
companies and they've done quite well
and I'm accustomed to having very good
graduate students around me and but one
of the things I really have enjoyed
about the daily wire is that everything
is done to a high standard of Excellence
so that's cool to see and that people
are taking that responsibility on to
themselves which I also really like to
see because it means that you've
distributed responsibility and creative
freedom at the same time quite
extensively and that gives your company
a real dynamism and I really saw that
with the with the documentaries and so
that that's but I think that's the only
kind of stability you can really hope
for doing what you're doing it has to be
a living stability and not and not some
false stability that comes from resting
on your laurels and assuming that what
you've already going to that's like
burying your talents in the
I give a speech to all of our new
recruits once a month they bring and of
course I haven't gotten to do this in
the last five months but once a month
they bring all the new people into a
room and I go and visit with
them and I tell them every time the
daily wire is an incredibly difficult
place to work uh it's an incredibly
difficult place to work because we have
an actual Mission and you
know it I can I liken it into the
mission of say a SpaceX even though
obviously what we do is very different
but we're we're trying to get to Mars
and we're building the rocket as we go
and there's every possibility at every
new Step that will crash back to Earth
if you don't get Breakaway velocity
there's only the inevitability crashing
becomes an inevitability it's just a
matter of time and that may well be our
our fake we could one day have a billion
dollars of year a year of Revenue and
then fail and you could say well I don't
understand you used to be succeeding
with $30 million a year of Revenue how
could you fail with a billion well it's
easier to fail at a billion because the
mistakes get much more cost much faster
daily wire is hard the pressure is
intense every startup is hard and our
startup has actual enemies we have all
the major Giants in social media except
perhaps Elon actively trying to shut us
down trying to demonetize us we have
billionaire funded nonprofits who exist
they pay people six figures a year to
listen to our content and then to try to
Target our advertisers into dropping us
on the basis of the things that we say
on that content we have a government
that's hostile uh to the things that we
do the entire apparatus of of our
culture is arrayed essentially against
our business of course it's an
incredibly challenging environment for
people to work in I say it is possible
it is possible that I will one day fire
you because of a mistake of course
hypothetically there's a mistake that
you could make that's so vast I would
have to fire you and that has happened
one or two times but in the vast
majority of instances that's not why
people burn out at the daily wire or
quit the daily wire and get fired far
more prevalent is people who try to rest
on past
successes if you try to rest on I
understand that temptation but past
successes will not get us to Mars you
know we we will crash with all of those
past successes firmly in our pocket it's
the next success that has to happen and
the one after that and the one after
that and if you're not willing to
continue to challenge yourself and
continue to grow and take responsibility
if if I walk in and say you made a
mistake I need you to say yes I did and
here's what I learned from it I tell
people my dream in life is to one day
make A1 billion doll mistake you know
you talked about enemies and and risk
and I think part of the reason that it's
exciting to be working with the daily
wire is because the risk is calibrated
properly see one of the things you do as
a therapist I had a client who was very
afraid of of death now everyone's afraid
of death and logically so but you can be
so afraid of death that it completely
obliterates your ability to live and she
was a vegan and couldn't even walk into
a butcher store and it was because the
idea of death was just too much for her
she she tried to stay asleep most of the
time she was very suicidal
um she had she had a panoply of problems
and one of the things we did in
treatment I outlined this in my book was
go watching them
bombing and that was very very dramatic
was dramatic for me too it's it's not a
trivial thing to see that's for sure and
part of the reason you do that with
people and I did this because she had a
dream that indicated some necessity on
her part to do something that dramatic
in order to lift herself out of her fear
and it really did and part of the reason
it lifted herself out of her fear was
because if you have to confront
something truly terrible this is what
happens when uh um archaic people
initiate their teenagers especially the
boys they subject them to something
truly awful and the reason they do that
is because then their nervous system is
calibrated properly they know the
difference between something truly awful
and something that's just you know not
that good and if you don't have that
calibration then everything that's just
not that good becomes truly awful now
one of the things that's cool about the
daily wire and this may be a consequence
of the intense assault on its existence
is that because you guys are surrounded
by enemies and the probability of
failure is
spectacular that risk is built in like
just accepting that risk is built into
to the psyches of the people who work
there and so when I say well why don't
we go do a documentary in Jerusalem and
Athens and Rome and we won't script it
and we'll just see what happens when we
go there everybody says well that sounds
like it would be interesting instead of
having a neurotic fit about all the
multiple ways that could go wrong which
and there are multiple ways it could go
wrong and the probability that it would
succeed is very low but I know perfectly
well when you're trying to engage people
unless you put yourself on the Ragged
edge of disaster you're you're not
interesting and so you know it could
easily be that all this adversarial
tension that you're experiencing that
I'm experiencing as well is actually not
only not an antithetical to that success
to radical success but actually a
precondition for radical success it's
certainly you know one of the things my
family has learned through bitter
experience is that the worst
attacks have the most possibility
embedded in them if you can stop
panicking and pull back and evaluate the
situation there's all sorts of
opportunity in a bitter attack
especially if you don't apologize if you
can withstand the attack if you can you
can meet it with a sense of humor and
playfulness which is a very strange
thing to be able to do when it's a true
attack but the certainly the journalists
who have treated me most harshly have
been the ones who have done me the
biggest favors and that's a very strange
thing to see and learn you know it's it
kind of stands your understanding of the
world on its on its head um but in a way
that's also a great relief it's like
don't be so sure that's just a
catastrophe you know I mean sometimes
that's obviously very hard to
rationalize but even in the extreme
situations it's not obvious you know no
matter how big the dragon there might be
a treasure that's associated that's just
as big or bigger it might be that that's
how the world is structured so let's
close this with me I wanted to ask you
about pen dragon and what you're doing
in Europe and you mentioned that that
series was very uh relevant to you in
the shaping of your world viiew so why
don't you you walk us through that a bit
and then tell us exactly what you are
doing in Europe and when this is all
going to be launched and what you expect
of it so Steven lawhead uh is an
American Author he's expatriated about
30 years ago and has lived in Oxford
ever since he was a American sort of
Evangelical worked in the Evangelical
music industry actually in Franklin
Tennessee right down the road from the
daily wire offices and he's been
anglicanized and and you know he's
obviously a major angile moved to Oxford
and really
pursued his writing from from a historic
point of view that's not to say that he
writes history he certainly doesn't it's
very Fiction it's very much fiction but
it's it's fiction that's grounded to a
large degree that takes place in a time
and a place which he understands
incredibly well and it's it's masculine
and
it's uh Christian but it's Christian in
a way that's very grounded as well I
mean it's about you know it's about this
very dark period in British history it's
about war and it's about death and it's
about uh the human struggle and I would
say that I found the Dragon cycle about
the same time that I found Braveheart
When Braveheart first came out in
theaters and Braveheart is the film that
impacted me uh the most in my life for
many of the same reasons it's it's
historical fiction obviously it's not
that's not quite the story of Will
William Wallace but it's an important
story and an important take on a story
that's fundamentally about I think what
it means to be a man of purpose and a
man of faith in the real world not the
sort of Maybe Christian you know I grew
up in the Jesus's nice 90s when when
when Jesus that's just not true that's
just not true I've always said I want to
write a book called Jesus The Jerk
because you know G Jesus was a tough guy
to like uh he he showed love in a way
that only God can show love which is you
know yeah it has an put it that way it
has an edge that's right and and I'm not
even sure that you could show love in
the ways that Jesus sometimes showed
love for example if you met a woman at a
well and she had one source of absolute
shame and you chose to lead with it I'm
not sure that you could make the claim
that you are acting out of love but
Christ could make the claim that he was
acting out of love that's a very
unique all of that to say the sort of
nice hippie Jesus who came to hug it out
uh was very unappealing to me it didn't
seem real it didn't seem you know I
lived in a small town my friends as as
is true in many American small towns in
that era you horrible drug use horrible
drug use happening inside my family lots
of pain and suffering all around me uh
and I just didn't see how this nice guy
Jesus held up and then I encountered
these stories lawhead stories Mel Gibson
and and Randall Wallace's story of of
Braveheart and I saw what it would be to
be a man of purpose who actually lived
out faith in a in a in a world that
wasn't very
nice and that really inspired a lot of
my thinking a lot of my worldview uh I'm
sure that my politics is formed in those
moments I'm sure that my faith is forged
in many ways in those moment it's
interesting that you saw that you know
um I've been writing about
Abraham and the abrahamic story is
extremely interesting which is of course
why we still remember it but there's
there's a couple of elements that I find
particularly Germaine to our discussion
and to the state of the current world so
Abraham has the Socialist Paradise at
the beginning of the story essentially
like if you imag imagine that the
Socialist Paradise is a place where all
your needs are met Abraham has that
right because he's the son of a wealthy
man and he has everything he needs at
hand and he's actually luxuriated in
that for decades because I think he's 75
when the story opens and God comes to
him and says you're you're not built for
laying around and and you know and
existing on a Non-Stop diet of topless
servant girls and milk and honey get the
hell out there in the world and and what
and what have your adventure well the
thing about an adventure is it's rough
it's rough but it's funny because it
appears that a rough Adventure is better
than an endless diet of milk and honey
you know even when you think about what
we we do when we go to movies we don't
go and watch people satiate themselves
with materialist Goods we don't go to
movies and watch people shop we don't
watch them eat ice cream right we don't
we don't see them with the possible
exception of sex we don't see them
engaging in consumatory activities
technically speaking we go watch people
like James Bond we go watch people who
are having dangerous adventures and
that's exactly what God actually puts in
front of Abraham and the reason that
Abraham can handle these dangerous
Adventures is because he continually
makes the appropriate sacrifices he
always keeps his eye on what's highest
and that leads him through war and
starvation and the possible loss of his
wife and the necessity in principle to
sacrifice his son and all the calamities
of the world are in the abrahamic story
and he prevails against all that and
becomes the father of nations in
consequence but what's so cool about the
story and it goes along with your
observation that the Christ is a nice
hippie story just doesn't cut it it's
like no you're built to
be you're built to take on death and
Hell fundamentally and that that's part
and parcel of the Christian passion
story too because it means that a full
encounter with life is an encounter with
all of the terrible elements of death
something I covered in detail with Paso
when we did the Jerusalem documentary
that'll be coming out later and that
wasn't even enough is that the full
Christian passion story is you don't
have to just encounter death and the
worst sort of death you know at the
hands of your own Community disgraced
despite your innocence you have to
encounter the reality of Hell itself to
have lived a full life and you know
that's brutal but it is what it what it
offers and this is something that's
really an offering especially to young
men is that well it offers you the
adventure of your life and maybe if you
had that that would be that would be
what you actually want instead of what
you say you want you know it could be
that that's how things work well and it
sounds like you you started this in part
by saying you know you are having the
adventure of your life you're in Italy
you're in Europe you're you're pursuing
this this series that's actually the
Fulfillment of a dream that you've had
since you were a teenager and strangely
everything it can to kill me it's also
the hard it's the hardest thing I've
ever done by any measure
uh what's hard about I think I think
that I'm on the brink I think I'm the
brink of personal collapse it's been so
difficult I'm I'm edgy I'm uh Mercurial
in ways that I'm not typically Mercurial
um I I'm I don't gain weight I don't
lose weight it's just been this horrible
grind and everyone who sees me say or
sees photos of me or saw my video a few
days ago say I've never seen you look so
happy and I think well yeah because both
of those things are true right right
right right right yeah isn't that a
strange thing and so how do you account
for the fact that how do you account for
the fact that you are doing this
perversely impossible thing that is
unlikely beyond belief but that's
actually happening I mean first of all
with the daily wire in general second
with what is so far a improbably
successful forray into the domain of
culture and then third and even more
specifically that well you're making the
series of your dreams essentially like
why do you think why do you what do you
think you've done apart from being the
fortunate recipient of God's grace what
do you think you've done not done to
make
this a
possibility I I think that I would say
that God recommends God God doesn't
recommend us this is one of the the
lessons that I encounter over and over
and over in my life and where I see uh
real Pride set in is when we think God
is recommending us when quite often he's
recommending well perhaps exclusively
he's recommending
himself uh you know what have what have
have I done well I've done a lot of
things a lot of them are good and a lot
of them are bad uh I am a lot of things
I'm complex like everyone else's complex
and in a lot of superficial ways I've
made great choices and done great good
things and in a lot of more subtle areas
of life I'm I've done probably and am
probably worse than people who've been
made worse superficial choices uh than
I've made you know you you talked a
little bit ago about Free Will and how
important Free Will is and of course I
agree you you can't I don't think one
can honestly look at life and deny Free
Will I think that you look at Li I think
a lot of people can reason their way out
of believing in free will uh but if
there is a supercomputer which could
somehow measure all of the vibrations
from every Photon and every electron
since the big bang and crunch it all up
could it figure out that I'm going to
clap my hands right now on this podcast
well if there is such a supercomputer
that computer is God that which speaks
to the fact that there is both an
experiential Free Will and there is
something Beyond free will as well you
know that that in some ways I'm
responsible for my choices and in some
ways I'm not from a governing point of
view from a Justice point of view we can
only organize society around the idea of
free will you couldn't organize society
around determinism it would be an unjust
Society if you did but part of humility
is to say Free Will isn't sufficient to
completely describe the Human Experience
just as
determinism isn't perhaps at all
satisfactory to describe the Human
Experience so I take all of that and I
you know I mentioned that a lot of drug
use happened in my family you know I
have an uncle who's a year younger than
me we were basically raised as brothers
very small town very you close
incredibly close to this day with my
grandparents and you know we we grew up
in the same house at the same time
basically you know that's not literally
true but for all intents and purposes
it's
true and at about the same time in our
lives we started walking into rooms
where there was alcohol and at about the
same time in our lives we started
walking into rooms where there were
cigarettes and at about the same time we
walked into rooms where there were
drugs and he became addicted to all of
those things and I didn't is that as
simple as I made better choices than him
well it's certainly not as simple as I
made better choices than him if the room
had been filled with ranch dressing he
would have walked out addicted to Ranch
ing there is a there's a switch in his
brain that's different than the switch
in my brain and you know by God's grace
he's he's uh been freed from those
things and and so that's why I don't
feel bad talking about it it's not as
though he's still in the throws of it or
has been in a very long time but I
always look at his life and my life and
say you could easily say that I made
better choices and in some ways I did
but even those choices I don't know that
I deserve much credit for and I also
made some really terrible choices and
just didn't get get stuck with the
consequences as he did at the same time
while he went through this phase of
doing superficially incredibly terrible
things I also can't look at his life and
and conclude that I'm better I made a
lot I I did a lot better in those
superficial areas and I also know the
darkness that I'm carrying around in in
my heart I know uh the judgments that I
have of other people I know you know I
know that the devil on one shoulder and
the angel on the other shoulder both
speak in my own voice and so it's very
hard to ever trust your own perceptions
of your goodness or your Badness I say
all of that to
say I can't really describe how I am
where I am a wholly apart from the grace
of God I don't I don't understand why
I've made choices that have led to this
I could point to some of the choices
that I think have without fully taking
any credit for them I I am as I said
earlier I'm committed to the
institutions that have helped us shape
our society and I'm critical of those
institutions but I don't feel a desire
to burn them down I only feel a desire
that I think we should all take up a
responsibility in our generation to out
with it with the bad and and rebuild the
the important edifices I don't know
where that comes from except story I
know that in Braveheart William Wallace
doesn't achieve the goal he's he's
executed other people achieve the goal I
know that in the pin dragon cycle in
turn both tal Essen and Merlin and
Arthur fail to achieve the goal they get
they draw us one step closer to that
goal and they go through huge losses so
perhaps in a narrative sense I I was
drawn to these stories about how it's
not our job to save the world it's only
our job to do our part when Andrew
Breitbart wrote his book righteous
indignation Excuse me while I save the
world I called him and said Andrew you
can't call the book that and he said
well I am indignant and it is righteous
I said well you can call you can use
that part but don't use the subtitle I
said it's you're not saving the world
and God is a jealous God he's not going
to share credit for saving the world
with you and I I understand that Andrew
was on that mission I I supported him I
loved him in that mission but the
mission is to do our part in God's work
not to think that we're God and that the
work is ours to do and I don't mean to
be critical of my friend only of this
one bad idea that I think that he this
one bad idea that I think that he had
and so I I do think I do think that's
part of the grace that's helped me
accomplish the things that I've
accomplished I'm doing what's put in
front of me to
do I'm skeptical of my own motiv
ations enough that I challenge myself
and try to do better and I know it isn't
ultimately my fight to win and somehow
in that I've been able to participate in
a Grace and it may all fail so I don't
want to hold myself up as some great
example of how you should live your life
uh I only want to say that I think the
only correct posture between us and God
is humility the only correct posture
between us in our own lives is a sense
of responsibility for our actions on the
one hand and a sense of humility before
God in the other and somewhere in that
I've been been able to live a happy life
in Times of success and in times of
failure and I'm I'm not
um I'm not displeased to currently be in
a phase of success success can be much
harder by the way than failure um it
comes with its own as you know as
probably much better even than I success
comes with enormous challenges um but
there's a reason we call it success too
it comes with a lot of amazing benefits
that's a really good place to stop we're
at about the right time and that's
that's a very good closing and so I'm
very much looking forward to seeing what
happens with bent key on the child's
entertainment front it's something I'm
very interested in I hope the pen Dragon
series knocks them dead I'm really
looking forward to the release of our
documentaries it's been spectacularly
good fun and serious as well to be
working with the daily wire so I thank
you for that um that's been really
nothing but good and that's that's quite
something we've been working together
for year and a half now something like
that e and and it's been all of it's
been good on my side and so I very
pleased about that and would like as
long as you keep never saying anything
that I don't agree with yeah yeah yeah
well you you know you talked about
firing me if I make a mistake I mean
I've known for six years that I'm one
wrong statement away from catastrophe
and so but that is an exciting place to
exist there is that and it does force
you to be awake and there is something
useful being forced to be awake and and
I think daily wire is awake in the right
way so good luck with your Venture um as
you know anything I can do to help that
would be appropriate I would be more
than happy to do and uh I'm thrilled to
see I'm very interested to see what's
going to happen with Snow White because
that's so Preposterous and ridiculous
and comical and pointed and a nice a
nice move in relationship to Disney's
100th anniversary you guys have a very
good sense of timing and so that's very
funny to watch and so thank you very
much for the conversation as everyone
who's watching and listening knows I
will spend another half an hour with
Jeremy on The Daily wire side of things
and so if you want to head over there
consider a subscription you'll get
access to the bent key um Productions
now too which seems to be an additional
benefit especially if you have kids so
give that some consideration and thank
you to the film crew here in Lisbon and
to the Daily wire for making all of this
possible and Jeremy it was pleasure
talking to you and getting to know you a
little bit better thank you so much for
having
[Music]
me